ABIA
====

We assessed whether the data supports a conclusion that there are times
of the day that are systematically preferable to other times of the day
from the standpoint of minimizing delays in departures. ABIA commences
scheduled departures at 5:30 am, and the data indicates that flights at
that time typically depart a few minutes ahead of schedule, and that
on-time departures gradually deteriorate over the course of the day.
This is reflected in the scatter plot below, in which the data for
Departure Delays has been filtered and limited to those flights with a
Departure Delay &gt; 0. On average, flights after approximately 6:00
depart some minutes after their scheduled departure time and by evening
the delays are in excess of 20 or more minutes. This pattern holds
generally true on each day of the week, and on each month of the year.
The experience with delayed arrivals is broadly similar:

    library(mosaic)
    library(tidyverse)

    ABIA <- read.csv("~/Desktop/ABIA.csv")
    ABIA=filter(ABIA, DepDelay>0)
    ABIA=mutate(ABIA, Minutes=CRSDepTime%/%100 * 60 + CRSDepTime %% 100)
    sp<-ggplot(data=ABIA)+
      geom_point(mapping=aes(x=Minutes,y=DepDelay))+
      geom_smooth(mapping=aes(Minutes,DepDelay),se = FALSE)+
      facet_grid(~DayOfWeek)
    sp+xlim(300,1440)+ylim(0,400)

    ## `geom_smooth()` using method = 'gam' and formula 'y ~ s(x, bs = "cs")'

    ## Warning: Removed 19 rows containing non-finite values (stat_smooth).

    ## Warning: Removed 19 rows containing missing values (geom_point).

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-2-1.png)

    sp<-ggplot(data=ABIA)+
      geom_point(mapping=aes(x=Minutes,y=DepDelay))+
      geom_smooth(mapping=aes(Minutes,DepDelay),se = FALSE)+
      facet_wrap(~Month)
    sp+xlim(300,1440)+ylim(0,400)

    ## `geom_smooth()` using method = 'gam' and formula 'y ~ s(x, bs = "cs")'

    ## Warning: Removed 19 rows containing non-finite values (stat_smooth).

    ## Warning: Removed 19 rows containing missing values (geom_point).

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-2-2.png)

    sp<-ggplot(data=ABIA)+
      geom_point(mapping=aes(x=Minutes,y=DepDelay))+
      geom_smooth(mapping=aes(Minutes,DepDelay),se = FALSE)
    sp+xlim(300,1440)+ylim(0,400)

    ## `geom_smooth()` using method = 'gam' and formula 'y ~ s(x, bs = "cs")'

    ## Warning: Removed 19 rows containing non-finite values (stat_smooth).

    ## Warning: Removed 19 rows containing missing values (geom_point).

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-2-3.png)

(minutes are running minutes during the day, such that 300 is 5:00am)

Regression
==========

We prepared a scatter plot reflecting the Creatinine dataset, and
plotted a geom\_smooth line based on that data:

    creatinine <- read.csv("~/Desktop/creatinine.csv")
    ggplot(data=creatinine)+
      geom_point(mapping=aes(x=age,y=creatclear))+
      geom_smooth(mapping=aes(x=age,y=creatclear),se = FALSE)

    ## `geom_smooth()` using method = 'loess' and formula 'y ~ x'

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-3-1.png)

    lm_creat = lm(creatclear ~ age, data = creatinine)
    coef(lm_creat)

    ## (Intercept)         age 
    ## 147.8129158  -0.6198159

Therefore, based on the available data we conclude that the f(x) for
creatinine clearance rate is as follows:

creatclear=-0.6198159\*age+147.8129158

Questions:

1.  What creatinine clearance rate should we expect, on average, for a
    55-year-old?

A 55 year old patient would have an expected creatinine clearance rate
of 113.723 ml/minute.

1.  How does creatinine clearance rate change with age? (This should be
    a number with units ml/minute per year.)

Based on the data, we anticipate an individualâ€™s creatinine clearance
rate to decline with age as follows: creatinine clearance
rate(age)=-0.6198159ml/minute per year

1.  Whose creatinine clearance rate is healthier (higher) for their age:
    a 40-year-old with a rate of 135, or a 60-year-old with a rate of
    112?

The expected creatinine clearance rate for a 40 year-old=123.0203
ml/minute, which is 11.9797 lower than our test subject. The expected
creatinine clearance rate for a 60 year-old=110.624 ml/minute, which is
1.376 lower than our test subject. Although both subjects are healthier
than the average for their age, the 40 year old is healthier than the 60
year old on both an absolute and age adjusted basis.

Green Building
==============

    library(mosaic)
    library(tidyverse)
    greenbuildings <- read.csv("~/Desktop/greenbuildings.csv")

    greenbuilding = filter(greenbuildings, leasing_rate > 10)

We first assume the methodology employed by the analyst to be correct,
which is to filter out all buildings with a leasing rate smaller than
10. Under this consumption, we generate the new data set greenbuilding.
The following analysis will be based on this new data set greenbuilding.

To look at the profitability of buildings, we examine the effect green
certification has on rents and the occupancy rates.

Rent
----

The rent of buildings is contingent on many factors like amenities, age
of the building, etc. Though on average, green buildings do seem to have
a higher rent than non-green buildings, it could very well be the result
of, for instance, green buildings are newer. Therefore, to estimate the
effect of green certification on the rent, we have to examine the
correlation between green\_rating and confounding variables like age.

### Rent & Age

    ggplot(data = greenbuilding) + 
      geom_point(mapping = aes(x = age, y = Rent), color = 'red') +
      geom_lm(mapping = aes(x = age, y = Rent), color = 'purple')

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-6-1.png)

The above scatter plot shows the relationship between rent and age. As
the age of the building increases, the rent of the building tends to
decrease. This is consistent with our common perceptions, which is that
newer buildings tend to have higher rents than the old ones.

Next, we investigate the relationship between green\_rating and age.

    ggplot(data = greenbuilding) +
      geom_boxplot(mapping=aes(x=factor(green_rating), y=age))

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-7-1.png)
The box plot gives a visualization of the age distribution for green &
non-green buildings. Clearly, buildings with green certifications are
generally newer than non-green buildings.

    lm1 = lm(age ~ green_rating, data=greenbuilding)
    coefficients(summary(lm1))

    ##               Estimate Std. Error   t value     Pr(>|t|)
    ## (Intercept)   49.30808  0.3746663 131.60533 0.000000e+00
    ## green_rating -25.42796  1.2553617 -20.25549 6.494996e-89

The regression analysis presents the same picture. According to the
regression model, green buildings are typically 25.43 years newer than
non-green buildings. Our previous findings show that newer buildings do
tend to have a higher rent. Namely, part of the reason green buildings,
on average, have a higher rent than non-green buildings could be that
green buildings are typically newer.

### Rent & Class

Next, we investigate the relationship between rents and class.

To better represent the class of each building, we generate a new
variable class. Buildings of class\_a have value 2, buildings of
class\_b have value 1, and buildings of class\_c have value 0.

    greenbuilding = mutate(greenbuilding, class = class_a * 2 + class_b * 1)

Then, as we believe buildings of higher quality may be buildings built
in relatively recent years. Thus, age and class of buildings might be
correlated. So, in order to better investigate the relationship between
Rent and Class, we construct a scatter plot with age as independent
variable, and Rent as dependent variable. But we highlight buildings of
different class with different color and attempt to find the impacts of
class on rents when we fix the age constant.

    ggplot(data = greenbuilding) + 
      geom_point(mapping = aes(x = age, y = Rent, color = factor(class)))

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-10-1.png)
The above scatter plot shows that most buildings labelled as class A are
typically newer, while buildings labelled as class B and class C are
more widespread in terms of their age distribution. We generate three
fitted curves to see how the rents of buildings of different classes
change according to their ages.

    ggplot(data = greenbuilding) +  
      geom_smooth(mapping = aes(x = age, y = Rent, color = factor(class)))

    ## `geom_smooth()` using method = 'gam' and formula 'y ~ s(x, bs = "cs")'

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-11-1.png)
The above graph reflects the relationship between rent and age for three
classes of buildings. It reflects that, as expected, class a buildings
are generally more expensive than class b, which is more expensive than
class c. We observe some anomalous features of this graph, such as the
fact that class c buildings (which we identified as all those that are
not designated as class a or class b), command higher rents than class b
buildings at various points in their life cycle. One possible
explanation is that our assumption about undesignated properties being
class c designation may not be reasonable. It also reflects that rents
for class a buildings increase from age 25 to about 75, which seems
counterintuitive. But the anomalies may be due to the existence a few
outlines.

    xtabs(~class + green_rating, data = greenbuilding)

    ##      green_rating
    ## class    0    1
    ##     0 1015    7
    ##     1 3391  131
    ##     2 2589  546

    p_classa_green = 546/(131+7+546)
    p_classa_nongreen = 2589/(3391+2589+1015)
    P_classb_green = 131/(131+7+546)
    P_classb_nongreen = 3391/(3391+2589+1015)
    P_classc_green = 7/(131+7+546)
    P_classc_nongreen = 1015/(3391+2589+1015)
    p_classa_green

    ## [1] 0.7982456

    p_classa_nongreen

    ## [1] 0.3701215

    P_classb_green 

    ## [1] 0.1915205

    P_classb_nongreen

    ## [1] 0.4847748

    P_classc_green 

    ## [1] 0.01023392

    P_classc_nongreen

    ## [1] 0.1451036

    d1 = greenbuilding %>%
       group_by(green_rating) %>%
       summarize(proportion = sum(class==2)/n())
    d2 = greenbuilding %>%
       group_by(green_rating) %>%
       summarize(proportion = sum(class==0)/n())
    ggplot(data = d1) + 
      geom_bar(mapping = aes(x=factor(green_rating), y=proportion),
               position="dodge", stat='identity') 

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-12-1.png)

    ggplot(data = d2) + 
      geom_bar(mapping = aes(x=factor(green_rating), y=proportion),
               position="dodge", stat='identity') 

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-12-2.png)
The tabulation shows that an overwhelming majority of green buildings
are classified as class A. While only 37% of the non-green buildings are
of class A, 79.8% of the green buildings are class A buildings. Also,
only 1% of green buildings are considered least desirable. 14.5% of
non-green buildings, however, are deemed as least desirable. With the
fact that buildings of a higher class tend to charge a higher rent than
those of a lower class, we believe the effect of green certification on
rents are greatly overestimated. The following regression results also
back up our conclusions. When we add class\_a as one of the explanatory
variables, the average effect green certifications have on rents drop
from 0.545 to -1.135. This not only suggests the importance of class in
determining the rents, it also demonstrates the strong correlation
between green rating and class, which is ignored by the previous data
analyst. After adding this new variable, it becomes apparent that green
buildings not only doesnâ€™t help increase the rents, it actually
contributes to a decrease in the overall rents.

    lm2 = lm(Rent ~ age + green_rating, data=greenbuildings)
    coef(lm2)

    ##  (Intercept)          age green_rating 
    ##  30.59205529  -0.04700633   0.54485180

    lm3 = lm(Rent ~ age + green_rating + class_a, data=greenbuildings)
    coef(lm3)

    ##  (Intercept)          age green_rating      class_a 
    ## 25.782505275  0.001161705 -1.134964372  6.700438077

    ggplot(data = greenbuilding) +
      geom_boxplot(mapping=aes(x=factor(green_rating), y=Rent)) +
      facet_wrap(~class)

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-15-1.png)
To make an initial assessment of the economic value of a green building
designation, we have now compared rents on green buildings vs.Â other
buildings, separated by class (0 is class C, 1 is class B and 3 is class
A). The above box plot reflects the mean and first standard deviations
of rent received for such buildings (0 is non-green, 1 is green). This
analysis suggests that, controlling for class only, rent is not
materially different for green and non-green buildings. There is a
somewhat higher mean value for green class c buildings, but we suspect
that is an aberration resulting from the relatively small data set for
such properties.

Below we continue to assess separately a variety of potentially
confounding factors that may be relevant to our analysis of rents.

### Rent & Renovated

    ggplot(data = greenbuilding) + 
      geom_point(mapping = aes(x = age, y = Rent, color = factor(renovated)))

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-16-1.png)
Generally, we believe older buildings are more likely to have undergone
substantial renovations. The preceding plot backs us up on that.
Buildings that have had renovations are typically 30 years old and
above. Therefore, to look at the effect renovations have on rents, we
generate two separate fitted lines, each of them shows the relationship
between age and rents. However, one of the line is generated from
buildings that have undergone major renovations, while the other one is
generated from buildings that have not.

    ggplot(data = greenbuilding) +  
      geom_lm(mapping = aes(x = age, y = Rent, color = factor(renovated)))

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-17-1.png)
From the fitted lines above, we observe that buildings that havenâ€™t
undergone substantial renovations tend to have higher rents than those
that have.

Next, we investigate the relationship between renovations and
green\_rating.

    xtabs(~renovated + green_rating, data = greenbuilding)

    ##          green_rating
    ## renovated    0    1
    ##         0 4212  538
    ##         1 2783  146

    d3 = greenbuilding %>%
       group_by(green_rating) %>%
       summarize(proportion = sum(renovated == 1)/n())
    ggplot(data = d3) + 
      geom_bar(mapping = aes(x=factor(green_rating), y=proportion),
               position="dodge", stat='identity') 

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-18-1.png)
The bar plot above shows that approximately 20% of the green buildings
have undergone substantial renovations. Yet nearly 40% of non-green
buildings have undergone renovations on a similar scale. Our previous
findings show that rents for buildings that have had renovations tend to
be lower. Namely, part of the reasons non-green buildings have lower
rents is that more non-green buildings have had renovations, which
negatively affects the rents. In other words, the effect green
certifications have on rents is, again, overestimated in the previous
report.

### Rent & Amenities

    ggplot(data = greenbuilding) + 
      geom_point(mapping = aes(x = age, y = Rent, color = factor(amenities)))

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-19-1.png)

    ggplot(data = greenbuilding) +  
      geom_smooth(mapping = aes(x = age, y = Rent, color = factor(amenities))) +
      xlim(0, 100)

    ## `geom_smooth()` using method = 'gam' and formula 'y ~ s(x, bs = "cs")'

    ## Warning: Removed 503 rows containing non-finite values (stat_smooth).

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-19-2.png)
Using similar methodologies, we examine the effect amenities have on
rents. The scatter plot shows that newer buildings tend to offer
amenities, which we suspect is due to a new trend in architecture
design. Again, to examine the effect of amenities, we fix the age
variable. Due to the fact that very few buildings over 100 years old
have amenities, we restrict the scope of our model to within 100 years.
The fitted curve shows that amenities do seem to positively impact the
rent, at least when buildings are less than 75 years old.

We further investigate the relationship between green\_rating and
amenities.

    xtabs(~amenities + green_rating, data = greenbuilding)

    ##          green_rating
    ## amenities    0    1
    ##         0 3362  186
    ##         1 3633  498

    d4 = greenbuilding %>%
       group_by(green_rating) %>%
       summarize(proportion = sum(amenities == 1)/n())
    ggplot(data = d4) + 
      geom_bar(mapping = aes(x=factor(green_rating), y=proportion),
               position="dodge", stat='identity') 

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-20-1.png)
The above bar plot shows that green buildings are more likely to have
amenities. Over 70% of green buildings come with amenities, while only
around 50% of green buildings have amenities. Combined with the fact
that amenities do positively impact rents, we believe part of the effect
green certification has on rents actually come from amenities. Green
buildings means a higher possibility of having amenities, which increase
rents. Therefore, we can conclude that the effect of green certification
is, once again, overestimated in the previous report.

### Rent & Net

    ggplot(data = greenbuilding) + 
      geom_point(mapping = aes(x = age, y = Rent, color = factor(net)))

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-21-1.png)

    ggplot(data = greenbuilding) +  
      geom_spline(mapping = aes(x = age, y = Rent, color = factor(net))) +
      xlim(0, 100)

    ## Warning: Removed 503 rows containing non-finite values (stat_spline).

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-21-2.png)

The two diagrams above shows that the rents for buildings with
net-rental contracts are typically lower than those without such
contracts. One exception occurs around the age of 50, where a few
unusually expensive net-rental properties cluster. But overall,
net-rental contracts do seem to be associated with lower rents.

    xtabs(~net + green_rating, data = greenbuilding)

    ##    green_rating
    ## net    0    1
    ##   0 6761  645
    ##   1  234   39

    percent_net_green = 39/(39+645)
    percent_net_nongreen = 234/(234+6761)
    percent_net_green

    ## [1] 0.05701754

    percent_net_nongreen

    ## [1] 0.03345247

    d5 = greenbuilding %>%
       group_by(green_rating) %>%
       summarize(proportion = sum(net)/n())
    ggplot(data = d5) + 
      geom_bar(mapping = aes(x=factor(green_rating), y=proportion),
               position="dodge", stat='identity') 

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-23-1.png)

We then go on to examine whether the proportions of buildings with
net-rental contracts differ between green and non-green buildings. The
result shows that 5% of the green buildings employ net-rental contracts,
but only 3% of non-green buildings use such contracts. Consequently, we
do believe the effect of green certification on rents may be slightly
underestimated due to the net variable. But still, due to the relatively
minor difference between the two proportions, we still believe the
effect of green certifications to be overall overestimated in the
previous report.

### Final Regression Model

    lm2 = lm(Rent ~ age + green_rating + net + amenities + renovated + class_a + class_b, data=greenbuildings)
    coefficients(summary(lm2))

    ##                 Estimate  Std. Error   t value      Pr(>|t|)
    ## (Intercept)  23.22215203 0.638312495 36.380538 4.895797e-268
    ## age           0.03501298 0.006816361  5.136608  2.864403e-07
    ## green_rating -1.22306610 0.606462915 -2.016720  4.375853e-02
    ## net          -6.14394490 0.902926695 -6.804478  1.088347e-11
    ## amenities    -0.81201182 0.364439034 -2.228114  2.590099e-02
    ## renovated    -3.65141741 0.386525144 -9.446778  4.514461e-21
    ## class_a      10.36035877 0.622022223 16.655930  3.024919e-61
    ## class_b       3.33371950 0.518605273  6.428241  1.365969e-10

The results from the regression model, which incorporate all variables
correlated with rents from the data set, show that green buildings do
have a negative impact on rents. This is consistent with our previous
analysis, which shows the positive impacts green certifications have on
rents are being severely overestimated. From the regression results, we
can tell that the rents of green buildings, on average, are $1.223 (per
square foot) less than non-green buildings. Therefore, the analystâ€™s
story is problematic, and from the perspective of gaining more rents,
the green buildings are not advantageous to build.

Occupancy
---------

Another way of looking at profitability of the investment is to examine
the occupancy rates. If the occupancy rates of green buildings prove to
be higher, some of the negative effects green certifications have on
rents may be negated.

As we suspect the occupancy rate to be associated with the buildingsâ€™
classes, we generate the following box plot representing the
relationship between occupancy rates and green certifications,
independent of the buildingsâ€™ classes.

    ggplot(data = greenbuilding) +
      geom_boxplot(mapping=aes(x=factor(green_rating), y=leasing_rate)) +
      facet_wrap(~class)

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-25-1.png)

We compared the impact of green designation on occupancy rates,
separated by the buildingâ€™s class. As the box plots above reflect, with
the exception of green designated class c buildings (for we suspect is a
quirk resulting from the fact that there are very few observations),
there is little difference between green and non-green designations in
terms of occupancy rates.

Conclusion
----------

Our assessment of the data does not support the conclusion that
investing the additional amounts required to construct a building that
will achieve a green designation will be rewarded financially with
higher rents or more favorable occupancy, the two most significant
drivers of economic return. Accordingly, unless required by regulatory
considerations, the decision to make such an investment will have to be
supported by qualitative considerations such as concern for the
environment and the community.

Milk prices
===========

    milk <- read.csv("~/Desktop/milk.csv")
    plot(sales ~ price, data=milk)

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-26-1.png)

    plot(log(sales) ~ log(price), data=milk)

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-26-2.png)

    lm_price = lm(log(sales) ~ log(price), data=milk)
    coefficients(summary(lm_price))

    ##              Estimate Std. Error   t value     Pr(>|t|)
    ## (Intercept)  4.720604 0.09171808  51.46863 9.251409e-81
    ## log(price)  -1.618578 0.08116128 -19.94273 5.692248e-39

    x = 2.613

The equation calculating the sales is as follows: \#\#\#\# sales =
exp(4.72) \* price ^(-1.62)

    curve((x-1)*exp(4.72)*x^(-1.62), from=1, to=10)

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-27-1.png)

    curve((x-1)*exp(4.72)*x^(-1.62), from=2, to=4)

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-27-2.png)

    curve((x-1)*exp(4.72)*x^(-1.62), from=2.5, to=3)

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-27-3.png)

    curve((x-1)*exp(4.72)*x^(-1.62), from=2.6, to=2.63)

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-27-4.png)

    curve((x-1)*exp(4.72)*x^(-1.62), from=2.612, to=2.614)

![](SDS323-project-MD_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-27-5.png)

    x = 2.613

Then, from the graph and calculations above, we can infer that when x,
the price of the milk, is $2.613, the revenue can be maximized.
